In this course, we'll
focus on problems.
This means that after having
done a clear review of all
the tools and strategies to
follow so we can correctly
diagnose and debug an issue
with the MongoDB deployment,
we should get our heads together
and think how these tools will
be applied to diagnose common
issues with the deployment,
configuration, provisioning,
sizing, and application logic.
Hopefully, with
that in mind, you
can quickly relate to
your own applications
and be aware of how to
deal and diagnose correctly
with unintended situations.
There are a few
things that we can
perceive from the applications
and server hosts of MongoDB.
Let's say the symptoms that our
subjects may be demonstrating.
These generally will drive
us to blame the database.
That's OK.
Everyone does that.
But more importantly
than who to blame
is how to correctly
diagnose a situation
and perform corrective measures.
And there are a great
deal of symptoms
that we should be looking for.
We can have very slow queries.
We will look into
the tools that will
help us identify such offenders
and how to correct those.
Applications getting slower
writing data as time goes by--
we will look into
patterns and check
the tool that will allow
us to identify and monitor
a potential solution.
Aggregation pipelines aborting
for lack of resources--
something to keep in mind.
Server incurring
a high disk IO--
how to detect it, how to get
to the bottom of the problem.
Incorrect file system
configuration--
these can be very hard to find
in development environments,
but we will soon get into
trouble if we don't attend them
in production.
Incorrect MongoDB
configuration-- these can span
from unintended behavior
from incorrect configurations
of cache sizes, timeouts,
flushing intervals,
and write concerns.
Application driver integration--
how the application makes
use of our driver, which
commands it senses,
and how these can derive
in unintended situations.
Connectivity issues--
when we inadvertently
incorrectly configure
our system, that
will impact the connectivity
of our deployment.
And then cluster configuration--
by incorrectly provisioning
or using replica sets
and shared clusters
we might get ourselves
into situations
that are important to
understand and fix.
These are some of
the aspects that we
are going to approach
within different chapters
of this course and introduce the
tools and strategies to detect,
diagnose, monitor, and fix
these unwanted scenarios.